you know will give something next to
those whom you are uncertain whether
they will give anything or not
and show them the list of those who have
given and
lastly do not neglect those who you are
sure will give nothing for in some of
them you may be mistaken
he laughed and thanked me and said he
would take my advice
he did so for he asked of everybody and
he obtained a much larger sum than he
expected
with which he erected the capacious and
very elegant meeting house that stands
in arch street
begin footnote gilbert tennant 1703
to 1764 came to america with his father
reverend william tennant and taught for
a time in the
log college from which sprang the
college of new jersey
end footnote our city though laid out
with a beautiful regularity
the streets large straight and crossing
each other at right angles had the
disgrace of suffering those streets to
remain long
unpaved and in wet weather bills of
heavy carriages
plowed them into a quagmire so that it
was difficult to cross them
and in dry weather the dust was
offensive i had lived
near what was called the jersey market
and saw with
payne the inhabitants waiting in mud
while purchasing their provisions
a strip of ground down the middle of
that market was at least paved with
brick
so that being once in the market they
had firm footing
but were often over shoes and dirt to
get there
by talking and writing on the subject i
was at length instrumental in getting
the street paved
with some stone between the market and
the bricked foot
pavement that was on each side next to
the houses
this for some time gave an easy access
to the market
dry shot but the rest of the street
not being paved whenever a carriage came
out of the mud upon the pavement
it shook off and left its dirt upon it
and it was soon covered with mire
which was not removed the city as yet
having no scavengers
after some inquiry i found a poor
industrious man who was willing to
undertake keeping the pavement clean
by sweeping it twice a week carrying off
the dirt from before all the neighbors
doors
for the sum of sixpence per month to be
paid by each house
i then wrote and printed a paper setting
forth the advantages
to the neighborhood that might be
obtained by this small expense
the greater ease in keeping our houses
clean so much dirt
not being brought in by people's feet
the benefit of the shops buy more custom
etc etc as buyers could more easily get
at them
and by not having in windy weather the
dust blown in upon their goods
etc etc i sent one of these papers to
each house
and in a day or two went round to see
who would subscribe in agreement
to pay these sixpence it was unanimously
signed
and for a time well executed all the
inhabitants of the city were delighted
with the cleanliness
of the pavement that surrounded the
market it being a convenience to all
and thus raised a general desire to have
all the streets paved
and made the people more willing to
submit to attacks
for that purpose after some time i drew
a bill for paving the city
and brought it into the assembly it was
just before i went to england in 1757
and did not pass until i was gone and
then
with an alteration in the mode of
assessment
which i thought not for the better but
with an additional provision for
lighting
as well as paving the streets which was
a great improvement
it was by a private person the late mr
john clifton
is giving a sample of the utility of
lamps
by placing one at his door that the
people were first impressed with the
idea
of enlightening all the city the honor
of this public benefit has
also been ascribed to me but it belongs
truly to that gentleman
i did but follow his example and have
only some merit to claim respecting the
form of our lamps
as differing from the globe lamps we
were at first supplied with from london
those we found inconvenient in these
respects
they admitted no air below the smoke
therefore
did not readily go out above but
circulated in the globe
lodged on its inside and soon obstructed
the light
they were intended to afford giving
besides
the daily trouble of wiping them clean
and an
accidental stroke on one of them would
demolish it
and render it totally useless i
therefore suggested that composing
them of four flat panes with a long
funnel above to drop the smoke
and crevices admitting air below to
facilitate the ascent of the smoke
by this means they were kept clean and
did not grow dark in a few hours
as the london lamps do but continued
bright till morning
and an accidental stroke would generally
break
but a single pane easily repaired
i have sometimes wondered that the
londoners did not
from the effect holes in the bottom of
the globe lamps
used at vaxhall have in
keeping them clean learn to have such
holes in their street lamps
but these holes being made for another
purpose these
to communicate flame more suddenly to
the wick by a little flax
hanging down through them the other use
of letting in
air seems not to have been thought of
and therefore after the lamps had been
lit a few hours the streets of london
were very poorly illuminated
begin footnote baxall gardens once a
popular and fashionable london
resort situated on the thames above
lambeth the gardens were closed in 1859
but they will always be remembered
because of sir roger de covery's
visit to them in the spectator and from
the description in smallitz
humphrey clinker and thackery's vanity
fair
end of footnote the mention of these
improvements
puts me in mind of when i proposed one
in london
to dr father gill who was among the best
men i have known
and a great promoter of useful projects
i had observed
that the streets when dry were never
swept and the light dust carried away
but it was suffered to accumulate till
the wet weather
reduced it to mud and then after lying
some days so deep
on the pavement that there was no
crossing but in paths
kept clear by poor people with brooms it
was
with great labor raked together and
thrown up into carts
open above the sides of which suffered
some of the slush
at every jolt on the pavement to shake
out
and fall sometimes to the annoyance of
foot passengers
the reason given for not sweeping the
dusty streets was
that the dust would fly into the windows
of shops and
houses an accidental occurrence had
instructed me
how much sweeping might be done in a
little time
i found at my door in craven street one
morning a poor woman sweeping my
pavement with
a birch broom she appeared very pale and
feeble
and just come out of a fit of sickness i
asked who
employed her to sweep there she said
nobody but i am very poor and in
distress
and i sweeps before gentle folks's doors
and hopes they will give me something
i bid her sweep the whole street clean
and i would give her a shilling
this was at nine o'clock at 12 she came
for the shilling
from the slowness i saw at first in her
working i could scarce believe that the
work was done
so soon and sent my servant to examine
it
who reported that the whole street was
swept perfectly clean
and all the dust placed in the gutter
which was in the middle
and the next rain washed it quite a way
so that pavement and even the kennel
were perfectly clean i then judged that
if that feeble woman could sweep such a
street in three hours
a strong active man might have done it
in half the time
and here let me remark the convenience
of having but one gutter
in such a narrow street running down its
middle instead of two
one on each side near the footway
for where all the rain that falls on the
street runs from the sides
and meets in the middle it forms there a
current strong enough
to wash away all the mud it meets with
but
when divided into two channels it is
often too weak to cleanse either
and only makes the mud it finds more
fluid so that the wheels of carriages
and feet of horses throw and dash it
upon the foot pavement
which is thereby rendered foul and
slippery
and sometimes splash it upon those who
are walking
my proposal communicated to the good
doctor was
as follows for the more effectual
cleaning and
keeping clean the streets of london and
westminster
it is proposed that the several watchmen
be contracted with
to have the dust swept up in dry seasons
and the mud raked up at other times each
in their several streets and lanes of
his round
that they be furnished with rooms and
other proper instruments
for these purposes to be kept at their
respective stands
ready to furnish the poor people they
may employ in the service
that in the dry summer months the dust
will all be swept
up into heaps in proper distances before
the shops and windows of houses
are usually opened when the scavengers
with
close covered carts shall also carry it
away
that the mud when raked up be not left
in heaps to be spread abroad again
by the wheels of carriages and trampling
of horses
but that the scavengers be provided with
bodies of carts
not placed high upon wheels but low upon
sliders
with lattice bottoms which being covered
with straw
will retain the mud thrown into them and
permit the water to drain from it
thereby it will become much lighter
water making the greatest part of its
weight and these bodies of carts to be
placed at convenient distances
and the mud brought to them in
wheelbarrows by remaining there placed
till the mud is drained and the horse is
brought to draw them away
i have since had doubts of the
practicality of the latter part of this
proposal
on account of the narrowness of some
streets and the difficulty of placing
the draining
sleds so as not to encumber too much of
the passage
but i am still of opinion that the
former requiring the dust to be swept up
and carried away before the shops are
open is very practicable
in the summer when the days are long for
in walking through the strand and fleet
street one morning
at seven o'clock i observed there was
not one shop
open though it had been daylight and the
sun up above three hours
the inhabitants of london choosing
voluntarily
to live much by candlelight and sleep by
sunshine
and yet often complain a little absurdly
of the duty on candles and the high
price of tallow
some may think these trifling matters
not worth minding or relating
but when they consider that though dust
blown into the eyes of a single person
or into a single shop on a windy day is
but of small
importance yet the greater number of the
instances
in a populous city and its frequent
repetitions
give it weight and consequence perhaps
they will not censor very severely those
who bestow some attention to affairs of
this
seemingly low nature human felicity
is produced not so much by great pieces
of good fortune
that seldom happen as by little
advantages that occur every day
thus if you teach a poor young man to
shave himself
and keep his razor in order you may
contribute more to the happiness of his
life
than giving him a thousand guineas the
money may be soon spent
the regret only remaining of having
foolishly consumed it
but in the other case he escapes the
frequent vexation
of waiting for barbers and of their
sometimes dirty fingers
offensive breaths and dull razors he
shaves when most convenient to him
and enjoys daily the pleasure of its
being done
with a good instrument with these
sentiments i have hazarded the few
preceding pages
hoping that they may afford hints which
sometime or other
may be useful to a city i love having
lived many years in
it very happily and perhaps to some of
our towns in america
having been for some time employed by
the postmaster general of america
as his comptroller in regulating several
offices
and bringing the offices to account i
was
upon his death in 1753
appointed jointly with mr william hunter
to succeed
him by a commission from the postmaster
general in england
the american office never had hitherto
paid anything to that of britain
we were to have 600 pounds a year
between us
if we could make that sum out of the
profits of the office
to do this a variety of improvements
were necessary
some of these were inevitably at first
expensive
so that in the first four years the
office became above 900
pounds in debt to us but it soon after
began to repay us
and before i was displaced by a freak of
the ministers
of which i shall speak hereafter we had
brought it to yield three times as much
clear revenue to the crown
as the post office of ireland since that
imprudent transaction
they have received from it not one
farthing
the business of the post office
occasioned by taking a journey this year
to new england where the college of
cambridge
of their own motion presented me with a
degree of master of arts
yale college in connecticut had before
made me a similar compliment thus
without studying in any college
i came to partake of their honors they
were conferred in consideration of my
improvements and discoveries in the
electric branch
of natural philosophy end of chapter 13.
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 14.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit
librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank
woodworth pine chapter 14
albany plan of union in 1754
war with france being again apprehended
a congress of commissioners from the
different colonies was
by an order of the lords of trade to be
assembled at albany
there to confer with the chiefs of the
six nations concerning the means of
defending both
their country and ours governor hamilton
having received this order acquainted
the house with it
requested they should furnish proper
presence for the indians
to be given on this occasion and naming
the speaker
mr norris and myself to join mr thomas
penn
and mr secretary peters as commissioners
to act
for pennsylvania the house approved the
nomination
and provided the goods for the present
and though they did not much like
treating out of the provinces
and we met the other commissioners at
albany
about the middle of june in our way
theather i
projected and drew a plan for the union
of all the colonies
under one government so far as might be
necessary for defense
and other important general purposes as
we passed through new york
i had there shown my project to mr james
alexander
and mr kennedy two gentlemen of great
knowledge in public affairs
and being fortified by their approbation
i ventured to lay it before the congress
it then appeared that several of the
commissioners had formed plans of the
same kind
a previous question was first taken
whether a union should be established
which passed in the affirmative
unanimously a committee was then
appointed one member from each colony to
consider the several plans and a report
mine happened to be preferred and with a
few amendments was accordingly reported
by this plan the general government was
to be administered by a president
general
appointed and supported by the crown and
the grand council was to be chosen by
the representatives
of the people of the several colonies
met in
their respective assemblies the debates
upon
it in congress went on daily hand in
hand with the indian business
many objections and difficulties were
started but at length they were all
overcome
and the plan was unanimously agreed to
and copies ordered to be transmitted to
the board of trade
and to the assemblies of the several
provinces its fate was singular
the assemblies did not adopt it as they
all thought there was
too much prerogative in it and in
england it was judged to have too much
of the democratic
the board of trade therefore did not
approve of it nor
recommended for the approbation of his
majesty
but another scheme was formed supposed
to answer the same purpose better
whereby the governors of the provinces
with some members of their respective
councils
were to meet and order the raising of
troops building of forts etc
and to draw on the treasury of great
britain for the expense
which was afterward to be refunded by an
act of parliament
laying attacks on america my plan
with my reasons in support of it is to
be found among the political papers
that are printed being the winner
following in boston
i had much conversation with governor
shirley upon both the plans
part of what passed between us on the
occasion may also be seen among those
papers
the different and contrary reasons of
dislike
to my plan makes me suspect that it was
really
a true medium and i am still of opinion
it would have been happy for both sides
the water if it had been adopted
the colonies so united would have been
sufficiently strong to have defended
themselves
there would then have been no need of
troops from england
of course the subsequent pretense for
taxing america
and the bloody contest it occasioned
would have been avoided
but such mistakes are not new history is
full of the errors of states and princes
look round the habitable world how few
know their own good or knowing it pursue
those who govern having much business on
their hands
do not generally like to take the
trouble of considering
and carrying into execution new projects
the best public measures are therefore
seldom adopted
from previous wisdom but forced by the
occasion
the governor of pennsylvania in sending
it down to the
assembly expressed his approbation of
the plan
as appearing to him to be drawn up with
great clearness
and strength of judgment and therefore
recommended it as well
worthy of their closest and most serious
attention the house however
by the management of a certain member
took it up when i happened to be absent
which i thought not very fair and
reprobated it without
paying any attention to it at all to my
no
small mortification end of chapter 14
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 15.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit
librivox.org the autobiography of
benjamin franklin
edited by frank woodworth pine chapter
15.
quarrels with the proprietary governors
in my journey to boston this year i met
at new york with our new governor
mr morris just arrived there from
england with whom i had been before
intimately acquainted he brought a
commission to supersede
mr hamilton who tired with the disputes
his proprietary instructions
subjected him to had resigned mr morris
asked me if i thought he must expect as
uncomfortable an administration i said
no you may on the contrary have a very
comfortable one
if you will only take care not to enter
into any disputes with the assembly
my dear friend says he pleasantly how
can you advise my avoiding disputes
you know i love disputing it is one of
my greatest pleasures
however to show the regard i have for
your counsel
i promise you i will if possible avoid
them
he had some reason for loving to dispute
being eloquent
and accurate sophistic and therefore
generally successful
in argumentative conversation he had
been brought up to it
from a boy his father as i have heard
accustoming his children to dispute with
one another
for his diversion while sitting at table
after dinner
but i think the practice was not wise
for in the course of my observation
these disputing
contradicting and confusing people are
generally unfortunate in their affairs
they get victory sometimes but they
never get good will
which would be of more use to them we
parted he going to philadelphia and i to
boston
in returning i met at new york with the
votes of the assembly
by which it appeared that
notwithstanding his promise to me
he and the house were already in high
contention and it was a continual battle
between them
as long as he retained the government i
had my share of it
for as soon as i got back to my seat in
the assembly
i was put on every committee for
answering his speeches and messages
and by the committees always desired to
make the drafts
our answers as well as his messages were
often tart
and sometimes indecently abusive and as
he knew i wrote for the assembly
one might have imagined that when we met
we could hardly avoid cutting throats
but he was so good-natured a man that no
personal difference between him and me
was occasioned by the contest and we
often
dined together one afternoon in the
height of this public quarrel
we met in the street franklin says he
you must go home with me and spend the
evening
i am to have some company that you will
like and taking me by the arm he led me
to his house
in gay conversation over our wine after
supper he told us
jokingly that he much admired the idea
of sancho panza
who when it was proposed to give him a
government
requested it might be a government of
blacks as
then if he could not agree with his
people
he might sell them one of his friends
who sat
next to me says franklin why do you
continue to side with these damned
quakers
had it not you better sell them the
proprietor would
give you a good price the governor says
i
has not yet blackened them enough he
indeed had labored hard to blacken the
assembly
in all his messages but they wiped off
his coloring as fast as he laid it on
them
and placed it in return thick upon his
own face
so that finding he was likely to be
negrified himself
he as well as mr hamilton grew tired of
the contest
and quitted the government these public
quarrels were all at the bottom owing to
the proprietaries
our hereditary governors who when any
expense was to be incurred for the
defense
of their province with incredible
meanness instructed their deputies to
pass
no act for levying the necessary taxes
unless their vast estates were in the
same act
expressly excused and they had even
taken bonds
of these deputies to observe such
instructions
the assemblies for three years held out
against this injustice
though constrained to bend at last at
length captain denny
who was governor morris's successor
ventured
to disobey these instructions how that
was brought about i
shall show hereafter but i am got
forward too fast
with my story there are still some
transactions to be mentioned
that happened during the administration
of governor morris
war being in a matter commenced with
france the government of massachusetts
bay projected
an attack upon crown point and sent mr
quincy to pennsylvania
and mr pano afterward governor pownell
to new york to solicit assistance as i
was in the assembly
knew his temper and was mr quincy's
countryman
he applied to me for my influence and
assistance
i dictated his address to them which was
well received
they voted in aid of ten thousand pounds
to be laid out in
provisions but the governor refusing
this assent to their bill
which included this with other sums
granted for the use of the crown
unless a clause were inserted exempting
the proprietary estate
from bearing any part of the tax that
would be necessary
the assembly though very desirous of
making their grant
to new england effectual were at a loss
how to accomplish it mr quincy labored
hard
with the governor to obtain his ascent
but he was obstinate
i then suggested a method of doing the
business without the governor
by order of the trustees of the loan
office which by law the assembly had the
right of drawing
there was indeed little or no money at
that time in the office
and therefore i proposed that the order
should be payable in a year
and to bear an interest of five percent
with these orders i suppose the
provisions might easily be purchased
the assembly with very little hesitation
adopted the proposal
the orders were immediately printed and
i was one of the committee directed to
sign and dispose of them the funds for
paying them
was the interest of all the paper
currency then extant in the province
upon
loan together with the revenue arising
from the
excise which being known to be more than
sufficient
they obtained instant credit and were
not only received in payment for the
provisions but many money
people who had cash lying by them vested
in those orders
which they found advantageous as they
borrow interest while upon hand
and might on any occasion be used as
money
so that they were eagerly all bought up
and in a few weeks
none of them were to be seen thus
the important affair was by my means
completed
mr quincy returned thanks to the
assembly
in a handsome memorial went home highly
pleased
with this success of his embassy and
ever after bore
for me the most cordial and affectionate
friendship
end of chapter 15.
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 16.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank
woodworth pine chapter 16
braddock's expedition the british
government
not choosing to permit the union of the
colonies has proposed at albany
and to trust that union with their
defense
lest they should thereby grow to
military and field their own strength
suspicions
and jealousies at this time being
entertained of them
sent over general braddock with two
regiments of regular english troops
for that purpose he landed at alexandria
in virginia
and thence marched to fredericktown in
maryland
where he halted for carriages our
assembly apprehending
from some information that he had
conceived violent prejudices
against them as averse to the service
wished me
to wait upon him as from them but as
postmaster general
under the guise of proposing to settle
with him
the mode of conducting with most
celerity
and certainty the dispatch is between
him and the government
of the several provinces with whom he
must necessarily
have continual correspondence and of
which
they supposed to pay the expense
my son accompanied me on this journey we
found
the general at fredericktown waiting
impatiently for the return of those
he had sent through the back parts of
maryland and virginia
to collect wagons i stayed with him
several days
dined with him daily and had full
opportunity
of removing all his prejudices by the
information of what the assembly had
before his arrival actually done
and were still willing to do to
facilitate his operations
when i was about to depart the returns
of wagons to be
obtained were brought in by which it
appeared that they amounted only to 25
and not all of those were in serviceable
condition
the general and all the officers were
surprised declared the expedition was
then
at an end being impossible and exclaimed
against the ministers for
ignorantly landing them in a country
destitute of the means of conveying
their stores
baggage etc not less than 150 wagons
being necessary i happen to say i
thought it was pity they had not been
landed rather in pennsylvania
as in that country almost every farmer
had his wagon
the general eagerly laid hold of my
words and said
then you sir who are a man of interest
there
can probably procure them for us and i
beg you will undertake it
i asked what terms were to be offered
the owners of the wagons
and i was desired to put on paper the
terms that appeared to me necessary
this i did and they were agreed to and a
commission and instructions accordingly
prepared immediately what those terms
were will appear in the advertisement
i published as soon as i arrived at
lancaster
which being from the great and sudden
effect it produced
a piece of some curiosity i shall insert
it
at length as follows advertisement
lancaster april 26 1755
whereas 150 wagons with four horses to
each wagon
and 1500 saddle or pack horses are
wanted for the service of his majesty's
forces
now about to rendezvous at wills creek
and his excellency general braddock
having been pleased to empower me to
contract
for the higher of the same i hereby give
notice that i shall attend for that
purpose at lancaster
from this day to next wednesday evening
and at york
from next thursday morning till friday
evening
where i shall be ready to agree for
wagons and teams
or single horses on the following terms
feast 1 that there shall be
paid for each wagon with 4 good horses
and a driver
15 shillings per diem and for each able
horse
with a packed saddle or other saddle and
furniture
two shillings per diem and for each able
horse
without a saddle 18 pence per diem
two that the pay commence from the time
of their joining the forces
at will's creek which must be on or
before the 29th of may
ensuing and that a reasonable allowance
be paid over
and above for the time necessary for
their traveling
to wills creek and home again after
their discharge
three each wagon and team and every
saddle or pack horse
is to be valued by indifferent persons
chosen between me and the owner
and in case of the loss of any wagons
team
or other horse in the service the price
accordingly to such valuation
is to be allowed and paid four
seven days pay is to be advanced and
paid in hand
by me to the owner of each wagon and
team
or horse at the time of contracting if
required
and the remainder to be paid by general
braddock or by the paymaster of the army
at the time of their discharge or from
time to time
as it shall be demanded 5.
no drivers of wagons or persons taking
care
of the hired horses are on any account
to be called upon to do the duty of
soldiers
or to be otherwise employed than in
conducting or taking care
of their carriages or horses 6.
all oats indian corn or other forage
that wagons or horses bring to the camp
more than is necessary for the
subsistence of the horses
is to be taken for the use of the army
and a reasonable price paid for the same
note my son william franklin is
empowered to enter into like contracts
with any person in cumberland county
b franklin to the inhabitants of the
counties of lancaster
york and cumberland friends and
countrymen
being occasionally at the camp of
frederick a few days
since i found the general and officers
extremely exasperated on account of
they're not being supplied with horses
and carriages
which had been expected from this
province as most able to furnish them
but though the dissensions between our
governor and assembly
money had not been provided nor any
steps taken for that purpose
it was proposed to send an armed force
immediately into these
counties to seize as many of the best
carriages and horses
as should be wanted and compel as many
persons into the service
as would be necessary to drive and take
care of them
i apprehended that the progress of
british soldiers through these counties
on such an occasion especially
considering the temper they are in
and their resentment against us would be
attended with many and great
inconveniences
to the inhabitants and therefore more
willingly took the trouble
of trying first what might be done by
fair and equitable mean
the people of these back countries have
lately complained to the assembly
that a sufficient currency was wanting
you have an opportunity of receiving and
dividing among you
a very considerable sum for if the
service of this expedition should
continue
as it is more than probable it will for
120 days
the higher of these wagons and horses
will amount to upward
of 30 000 pounds which will be paid to
you in silver and gold
of the king's money the service will be
light and easy
for the army will scarce march above 12
miles per day
and the wagons and baggage horses as
they carry those things that are
absolutely necessary
for the welfare of the army must march
with the army
and no faster and are for the army's
sake
always placed where they can be more
secure whether in a march
or in a camp if you are really as i
believe you are
good and loyal subjects to his majesty
you may now
do a most acceptable service and make it
easy for yourselves
for three or four of such as cannot
separately spare
from the business of their plantations a
wagon
and four horses and a driver may do it
together
one furnishing the wagon another one or
two horses
and another the driver and divide the
pay proportionally between you
but if you do not this service to your
king and country voluntarily
when such good pay and reasonable terms
are offered you your loyalty
will be strongly suspected the king's
business must be done
so many brave troops come so far for
your defense
must not stand idle through your
backwardness to do
what may be reasonably expected from you
wagons and horses
must be had violent measures will
probably be used
and you will be left to seek for
recompense where you can find it
and your case perhaps be little pitied
or regarded
i have no particular interest in this
affair as except the satisfaction
of endeavoring to do good i shall have
only
my labor for my pains if this method of
obtaining the wagons and horses
is not likely to succeed i am obliged to
send word to the general in fourteen
days
and i suppose sir john sinclair the
hussar
with a body of soldiers will immediately
enter the province for the purpose
which i shall be sorry to hear because i
am very sincerely
and truly your friend and well-wisher
b franklin i received of the general
about 800 pounds
to be dispersed in advance money to the
wagon
owners etc but the sum being
insufficient
i advanced upward of 200 pounds more and
in two weeks
the 151 wagons with 259
carriage horses were on the march for
the camp
the advertisement promised payment
according to the valuation
in case any wagon or horse should be
lost the owners however
alleging they did not know general
braddock or what dependence might be had
on his promise
insisted on my bond for the performance
which i accordingly gave them
while i was at the camp supping one
evening with the officers of colonel
dunbar's regiment
he represented to me his concern for the
subalterns
who he said were generally not in
affluence
and could ill afford in this dear
country
to lay in the stores that might be
necessary for so long a march
through a wilderness where nothing was
to be purchased
i commiserated their care and resolved
to endeavor procuring them
some relief i said nothing however to
him
of my intention but wrote the next
morning to the committee of the assembly
who had the disposition of some public
money
warmly recommending the case of these
officers to their consideration
and proposing that a present should be
sent them of necessaries
and refreshments my son who had some
experience of a camp life
and of its wants drew up a list for me
which i
enclosed in my letter the committee
approved and used such diligence that
conducted by my son the stores arrived
at the camp
as soon as the wagons they consisted of
20 parcels
each containing six pounds of sugar loaf
six pounds of good muscovado one pound
good green tea
one pound good bohiadoo six pounds
low sugar six pounds good muscovado
one pound good green tea one pound
good bohee six pounds
good ground coffee six pounds chocolate
one to two hundred weight best white
biscuit one to two pounds
pepper one quart best white wine vinegar
one gloucester cheese one cake
containing 20 pounds
good butter two dozen old madeira wine
two gallons jamaican spirits one bottle
flour of mustard two well cured hams
one to two dozen dry tongs six pounds
rice
six pounds of raisins these 20 parcels
well packed
were placed on as many horses each
parcel with the horse
being intended as a present for one
officer
they were very thankfully received and
the kindness acknowledged by letters to
me from the kernels of both regiments in
the most grateful terms
the general two was highly satisfied
with my conduct
and procuring him the wagons etc and
readily paid my account of disbursements
thanking me repeatedly
and requesting my further assistance in
sending provisions after him
i undertook this also and was busily
employed
in it till we heard of his defeat
advancing for the service of my own
money
upwards of one thousand pounds sterling
of which i sent him an account
it came to his hands luckily for me a
few days before the battle
and he returned to me immediately an
order on the paymaster
for the round sum of 1000 pounds
leaving the remainder to the next
account i considered this payment as
good luck
having never been able to obtain that
remainder of which
more hereafter the general was i think a
brave man
and might probably have made a figure as
a good officer in some european war
but he had too much self-confidence too
high an opinion
of the validity of regular troops and to
mean a one of both americans and
indians george crowen our indian
interpreter
joined him on his march with 100 of
those people
who might have been of great use to his
army as guides
scouts etc if he had treated them kindly
but he slighted and neglected him and
they gradually left him
in conversation with him one day he was
giving me
some account of his intended progress
after taking fort de caine
says he i am to proceed to niagara
and having taken that to fotenac
if the season will allow me and i
suppose it will
for duquesne can hardly detain me above
three or four days
and i see nothing that can obstruct my
march to niagara
having before revolved in my mind the
long
line his army must take in the march by
a very narrow road
to be cut for them through the woods and
bushes and also what i had read of a
former defeat
of 1500 french who invaded the iroquois
country
i had conceived some doubts and some
fears for the event of the campaign
but i ventured only to say to be sure
sir
if you arrive well before duquesne with
these fine troops
so well provided with artillery that
place
not yet completely fortified and as we
hear with no very strong garrison
can probably make but a short resistance
the only danger i
apprehend of obstruction to your march
is from
ambuscades of indians who by constant
practice are dexterous
in laying and executing them and the
slender line
near four miles long which your army
must make
may expose it to be attacked by surprise
in its flanks and to be cut like a
thread
into several pieces which from their
distance
cannot come up in time to support each
other he smiled at my ignorance and
replied
these savages may indeed be a formidable
enemy
to your raw american militia but upon
the king's regular and disciplined
troops sir
it is impossible they should make any
impression i was conscious of an
impropriety in my disputing with a
military man
in matters of his profession and said no
more
the enemy however did not take the
advantage of his army which i
apprehended
its long line of march exposed it to but
let it advance without interruption
till within nine miles of the place and
then
when more in a body for it had just
passed river where the
front had halted till all were come
over and in a more open part of the
woods then any it had passed
attacked its advanced guard by heavy
fire from behind trees and bushes
which was the first intelligence the
general had of an enemy's being near him
this guard being disordered the general
hurried his troops up to their
assistance
which was done in great confusion though
wagons baggage and cattle
and presently the fire came upon their
flank
the officers being on horseback were
more easily